## Conclusions

1. As long as there is no proper data validation based on the simple encodings for each INSPIRE theme, there will always be the need for a download in the GML encoding. This can either be as a full bulk download via an INSPIRE Atom feed, or a INSPIRE WFS. We do not expect OAPIF to evolve into a service with complex GML-output in the near future. 
2. At this moment OAPIF can be considered more as an additional service, than a replacing services of the OGC WFS 2.0. They both have their advantages and disadvantages, and serve different type of users. Though, it is expected that OAPIF will replace WFS2.0 in the future.
3. The main barrier for implementing OAPIF services conform INSPIRE is the complexity of the INSPIRE data models which is not supported in the standard OAPIF encoding GeoJSON, wich is the most preferred encoding by the target user group. The data needs to be flattened and converted into simple encodings and most importantly: The mapping needs to be described and published. Complex GML is allowed as output of the OAPIF, but so far no server application is known that can deal with this both for input and output without losing the complex structure half way the process.
4. The second barrier is the projection system (CRS) ETRS89 which is not supported by the standard OAPIF encoding GeoJSON. There is a specification for implementing more than one CRS: [[PUB-5]]. It is not clear whether applications support this already, but they will probably do so in the future. It is also a problem that can be solved at the client side. The applications used for this research did not support it yet. There is an extension in development for GeoJSON to support other coordinate reference systems than WGS84.
5. OAPIF conform INSPIRE download services is possible when both previous barriers are solved.
